

This is a draft or proof of concept for rewriting Tomboy Notes in FreePascal
and lazarus.

The intention is to stick to Tomboy's basic principles of simple user interface,
cross platform and syncronisation between those platforms. Long term ....

So far, it has a basic Tomboy Editor functional but lacks some things -

* Spell Checking (hard)
* Monospaced Font (easy)
* Printing       (easy)
* Table of Contents (a plugin I use a LOT)
* Tools to manage (re-use or delete) deleted files that end up n Backup/.


On the other hand, it does read and write Tomboy's files .  Displays the small,
normal, large and huge fonts Bold, Italics and bullets. Highlight is, at present
replaced wit red coloured text. It links to notes with matching names (and has a
a switch to stop that).

File syncs with Tomboy (and itself). Autosaves.

But the real feature is that it compiles cleanly under (gtk) Linux, Win10 and Mac.
From same source with only a couple of IFDEFs.  The resulting  binary is all you need.
No additional libraries.

I have tested it on Debian XFCE and Gnome 3, Ubuntu Mate, Win10  Mac Sierra

Notes about its internals -

There are binary install kits for Linux, Windows and Mac.
If you want to build your own (or, please, help with development) that too is easy.
Requires Free Pascal, Lazarus and the KControls component to build. I have been
working with Lazarus 1.8rc4. Its expected 1.8 will be formally released soon.
Use the bitbucket version of KControls.

Lazarus and Free Pascal support heaps of other platforms too and I suspect the
KControls Component might as well.

IFDEFs

There are not a lot of ifdef and generally I think its desirable to avoid if
possible. GetLocalTime() in SaveNote has one because a Linux process can be
fooled if its been running for a long time when we hit Daylight Saving Time.
This call will make sure the process clock and system clock agree.
Please see https://xkcd.com/1883/

One to force a workaround on the Mac relating to updating menu captions in the
TrayIcon, in MainUnit.  A bit of extra Window code needed in EditBox because of
Windows insistence on two character line endings.

Ah, and its possible and undesirable, to run two or more instances of this App.
And there is a memory leak in the Mac version so, to be safe, don't let it sit
running for a long length of time, we are working on this upstream problem.

Over time, expect this file to contain quite a lot about tomboy-ng's internal workings

Release Test Plan
-----------------
One each platform, Linux, Windows and Mac we do this set of test. In addition,
obviously, test any new features and things 'around' where changes have been made.
Tests are made with full debugging on including heaptrc. Not from within the IDE.

* Load up new binary and do a sync. Exit.
* Remove config dir (eg) ~/.config/tomboy-ng and all notes ~/.local/share/tomboy-ng/*
* Start App and point Notes Dir to default place.
* Create a new note. Add a set of bullets and mix up some formatting. Exit and reload.
* Config sync, pull in a set of notes. Load a large note and insert a link to another note.
* Delete the note you made earlier. Is it gone ? Is it in the Backup dir ?




